**1. Please walk us trough a typical day at your work?**
- In my current organization we follow agile methodology and the first meet that we have is daily standup where I update what is the work I have done yesterday. If I am blocked, I will explian them why I am blocked because of so and so reason and I am looking for help from XYZ team / person and I will try to unblock myself.
- once daily stand up is done, I will head to JIRA whic is our ticketing and project management platform. I will try to see what are the different tasks that are assigned to me and I will look at high priority tasks first.
- As I work as devops engg there will be some adhoc requests as well, I will try to see if there are any adhoc requests i.e of highest priority.
- most likely because we have already done our sprint planning I will try to work on high priority tasks i.e already assigned to me. I will continue to work on high priority task
tasks like:
* Usually the tasks that I work on terraform, I am one of the subject matter experise in this particular space so majority of critical tasks related to terraform are assigned to me.
* apart from these the tasks can be related to kubernetes / ansible I will continue to work on them.
* we usually have coiuple of meetings in the afternoon with architects / with other developers and I try to actively participate in these meetings.
* Towards end of the day I will try to update the Jira trackers because other devops engg/ team members might reference the jira ticket I am working on / specially our management is specially focus on JIra so I will update everything that I have done.
This how my typical day look like.


**2. Tell us about yout devops experience?**
Always look at job description and answer this question. Don't prepare for a standard answer, but look at the job description before the day of the interview.
Take a look at it 2 to 3 times and prepare a answer according to the job description.

**Note:** a day before interview, its always good Idea to post job description + My remuse and getting questions and answers generated by perpixlcity to prepare for that particular interview. Next know few points about company to interact with interviwer and also know about company reviews on glassdoor.

sentence making examples:
Hey, my name is roopa and currently I'm working for SEFE Energy. I'm part of couple of SEFE Energy's microservices project as part of my day to day activities.
In the current organization, I work on CI CD pipelines. Jenkins/GitHub actions is my primary expertise, so we have multiple repositories in this organization. I'm one of the key members who work on GitHub actions and I build robust CI CD pipelines.

Apart from that, my major activity also includes writing infrastructure as code using Terraform. So I work with multiple development teams where they have requests for infrastructure creation and whenever a request comes to the DevOps team, I'm one of the team members who pick up the Terraform related activities
or infrastructure as code related activities and deliver work through Terraform.
Personally, I like building Terraform related code in the modular approach, so I also work in creating Terraform modules and putting that in a centralized location.

Apart from that, all our applications are deployed to AWS, which is our primary cloud platform. So I work on various AWS services and also on the observability part. We don't have a SRE engineering team here, so observability is also part of our team.

whenever it comes to scripting. I prefer scripting in shell/Python.

**3. What is your contribution in the team that you are currently working with?**
>5 years experience   
In the current team where I am working, we are six DevOps engineers, and we work with 2 to 3 development teams, where each development team creates a request to us on the JIRA platform.
So once in two weeks we look at this JIRA tickets and we try to prioritize what tasks we will be working over that two weeks of time.

As a senior engineer, I take the responsibility of deciding the priority. If I am not sure about the priority, I will get in touch with the management or relevant stakeholders.

We also have a Scrum Master who will overlook at the complete sprint planning related activities. But as a team lead, I ensure the right priority items are picked up on the next couple of weeks.

Along with that, I primarily focus on designing the things apart from tasks that are assigned to me. For example, recently I designed modules in Terraform that are not existing in the organization. We did not have a module for a microservice deployment, so I took the responsibility for designing end to end microservice module deployment so that going ahead, nobody has to write Terraform code for that microservice deployemnt from the scratch.

My primary skills as senior member of the team are Kubernetes, Terraform, Docker and AWS. So I also act as a subject matter expertise with respect to these skills. If there are any questions about these skills, I am the point of contact. If I am not sure about certain things about these skills, I will go back and try to understand from the documentation or reach out to the support from AWS.

One of my regular activities is also identify the gaps, as DevOps team - We work with various development teams and we document a lot of things - If I identify that particular documentation is missing or release notes is missing, I work on that documentation to clear the gaps.

Also, I focus on training the junior engineers. We have 2 to 3 junior engineers in the team.
I take responsibility to train those junior engineers and bring them up to speed.
This is the primary contribution that I do in my current project.

<5years experience
So as a DevOps team member, in the current organization, we work with multiple development teams. and I am the point of contact of one of the development teams.
So we have a team lead who is supervising all the development teams, but I am a point of contact for one of the development teams.
I am the point of contact for one of the microservices team in the organization, and I attend all the meetings, the development team meetings or meetings which are relevant to the product. I try to attend those meetings and I try to get the information from the development teams.

In future, if they have any requests or if they need quick support, they reach out to me as one of the team members of the development DevOps engineering team.

Basically, I am the point of contact of one of the development team. Also, we do once in a while rotation so that everyone has knowledge of all the development teams.

And as part of the activities, I work on activities like infrastructure as code.
Where I write code for creating infrastructure on AWS using Terraform.
Apart from that, I also have good understanding of Kubernetes, where I work on defining the Kubernetes manifests for this particular development team if they have any questions related to Kubernetes. They also reach out to me and I'm also working on scripting using shell or Python.

So if there is any requirement for automation, I prefer automating that using shell or Python.

Also, I'm very much interested in learning things, so I also work very closely with senior engineers in the team. So right now in our DevOps engineering team, there are two seniors who have who has more than 6 to 7 years of experience.
So I also work with them, I schedule some one-on-one meetings with them to understand from their experience and understand how they are designing the solutions for these development teams.

So this is my contribution within the team.

**4. Tell us about your project in your current organisation?**
Junior Engg
 I am working as a DevOps engineer for this particular project and as part of this project, there are multiple microservices.
I take care of infrastructure needs for those microservices. I take care of deployment, build configuration, everything related to those microservices.
And as part of that, I work on Terraform, I work on Kubernetes, I work on Ansible, I work on AWS. Because these services are deployed on AWS.
This is rough about my current project.

senior engineer, 
As a senior engineer, I don't work with one dedicated team, but I'm actually working with three development teams.
I'm working as a team lead for the DevOps engineering team, where I take care of requirements of three development teams, and I try to share my work with the junior engineers within the team.
I primarily work on the design, and implementation is shared between junior engineers and me as DevOps senior DevOps engineer.
